Setup and Installation Instructions

1.Prerequisites :-
 Node.js (v14 or higher)
 npm (v6 or higher) or Yarn

2.Steps to Set Up the Project :-

 Clone the Repository:
 git clone git@github.com:HarshRajMishra1995/NextJs-Chatbot.git
 cd chatbot-app

 Install Dependencies: If you're using npm:
  npm install
  
  Or if you're using Yarn:
  yarn install

 Run the Development Server: Start the development server to see the application in action.
  npm run dev
  
  Or:
  yarn dev
 Access the Application: Open your browser and navigate to http://localhost:3000. You should see the chatbot on the homepage, ready to interact.


3.Project Structure and Key Components :-

 chatbot-application/
 │
 ├── components/
 │   ├── Chatbot.tsx          # Main chatbot component
 │   ├── Errorboundary.tsx       # To handle UI Errors
 │
 ├── public/                  # Static assets like images or icons
 ├── public/images            # Static assets like images or icons
 ├── styles/
 │   └── globals.css          # Global CSS file (import Tailwind here)
 │
 ├── tailwind.config.js       # Tailwind CSS configuration file
 ├── tsconfig.json            # TypeScript configuration file
 └── next.config.js           # Next.js configuration file

4.Assumptions and Limitations
 Assumptions:-
  Static Data: The chatbot currently uses static, predefined questions and answers. No backend or dynamic data fetching is implemented.
  Simple Matching Algorithm: The chatbot uses a basic algorithm to match user queries with predefined responses. This may result in limited accuracy.
  Single Session State: The chat history is maintained only during the current session. If the page is refreshed, the chat history is lost.
 Limitations:-
  No Backend Integration: The application does not connect to any backend service or API. All logic is client-side.
  Limited Query Handling: The chatbot can only handle a predefined set of questions. It does not support complex queries or natural language processing.
  Basic UI/UX: The focus was on functionality and responsiveness. Advanced UI features, like animations or rich media in messages, are not implemented.


